---
title: About	
bg: turquoise
color: white
---
	
# The call for proposals for the AoN Brainhack Warsaw 2017 is now open!


On the weekend of **17-19th November 2017**, the first edition of **AoN Brainhack Warsaw** will take place. During this two-day event dedicated to students and PhD students, we will work in teams on **neuroscience-related projects**. 

The aim of the event is to meet new, enthusiastic researchers, make new friendships in academia, learn, share the knowledge on data mining and brain research, but also promote open science in the spirit of the whole Brainhack community [(Craddock et al., 2016)](https://gigascience.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s13742-016-0121-x). Attendees  of various backgrounds are welcome to join!

By submitting your own, genuine research project, you can gain a priceless leadership experience as you will manage a group of researchers at our two-day event.

Please note AoN Brainhack Warsaw 2017 is a satellite event for the interdisciplinary  [Aspects of Neuroscience conference](http://neuroaspects.org/)  which will take place on 24-26th November 2017 in Warsaw. 
Participation in the conference is not mandatory to take part in Brainhack but we encourage to also consider this.




**Deadline for project proposals**:                     01.09.2017

**Announcement of projects**:                           15.09.2017

**Deadline for participant registration**:               01.11.2017

Please send the project proposals and all the related questions at the mailing address: [brainhackwarsaw@gmail.com](mailto:brainhackwarsaw@gmail.com)


Also, please team up with us! Join our channel (#brainhack-warsaw-2017) on [Brainhack Slack](https://brainhack-slack-invite.herokuapp.com/) for updated information on the developing Hackathon content and to contribute your own ideas.



