---
title: Speakers
bg:    cyan
color: white
---
# Speakers

<a name="hanke"></a>

{% include speaker-card.html avatarurl="michael.jpg" profilename="Michael Hanke, PhD "  homepage="http://psychoinformatics.de/" affiliation="Psychoinformatics Lab, Institut für Psychologie, Otto-von-Guericke-Universität,<br> Magdeburg, Germany"%}


#### Doing open science for your own benefit
**Abstract:** Everyday cognition involves a large variety of concurrent neural processes that handle an incredible amount of sensory inputs in order to generate appropriate responses when interacting with the environment. It can be argued that studying any of these aspects of cognition in isolation, as it is often the case in feature-deprived laboratory experiments, yields an over-simplified or over-specialized understanding of the true nature of brain function. In order to fully understand “how the brain works”, it is essential to study the complex inter-play of cognitive processes in a rich natural environment and go beyond the
localization of individual aspects of brain function. I will outline a strategy to approach this herculean task that is based on the core principles of open-science and aims to enable collaboration between research groups and disciplines.

**Bio:**
Michael obtained his PhD in 2009 from Institute of Psychology, Otto-von-Guericke-University in Magdeburg, Germany. Today, he has a Junior professor position at his Alma Mater. Dr Hanke is an expert in sensory processing in vision and other modalities, and in sensory representations in the cortex. He is also actively promoting the ideas of open and reproducible science, and was one of the founders of the Brainhack organization which we represent at the AoN Brainhack Warsaw. 



<a name="kirstie"></a>
{% include speaker-card.html avatarurl="kirstie.png" profilename="Kirstie Whitaker, PhD "   homepage="https://whitakerlab.github.io" affiliation="Brain Mapping Unit, Department of Psychiatry, University of Cambridge" %}
#### Shooting for the stars: Moving from reproducible to open research
**Abstract:**
This talk will discuss the perceived and actual barriers experienced by researchers attempting to do reproducible research in neuroscience, and give practical guidance on how they can be overcome. It will include suggestions on how to make your code and data available and usable for others (including a strong suggestion to document both clearly so you don’t have to reply to lots of email questions from future users). However, as this is a Brainhack event, Dr Whitaker will push you further: to consider working openly. Open research is an important step in changing an academic reward system from its current focus on individual contributions and “getting there first” to sharing work as it is being created and allowing collaborators to contribute from the start. All the AoN Brainhack Warsaw participants will leave knowing there is something they can do to step towards making their research reproducible, and hopefully a few will be inspired to make more radical changes.

**Bio:**
Kirstie is a Research Fellow at The Alan Turing Institute (London, UK). She completed her PhD in Neuroscience at the University of California, Berkeley in 2012 and holds a BSc in Physics from the University of Bristol and an MSc in Medical Physics from the University of British Columbia. She was a postdoctoral researcher in the Department of Psychiatry at the University of Cambridge from 2012 to 2017. Dr Whitaker uses magnetic resonance imaging to study child and adolescent brain development and is a passionate advocate for reproducible neuroscience. She is a Fulbright scholarship alumna and 2016/17 Mozilla Fellow for Science. Kirstie was named, with her collaborator Petra Vertes, as a 2016 Global Thinker by Foreign Policy magazine.



<a name="charl"></a>
{% include speaker-card.html avatarurl="charl.png" profilename=" Charl Linssen, PhD candidate "  affiliation="The Tiesinga group, Department of Neuroinformatics,<br> Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition and Behaviour,<br> Nijmegen, the Netherlands"%}

#### Convergence between artificial intelligence and simulation of the brain: from theory to GitHub
**Abstract:** Artificial neural networks have received a recent spur in attention after notable successes in diverse areas: computer vision, motor control, natural language processing, as agents in computer and board games, and many others. Computer simulation of neural networks has been around since the late 1950s, but recent successes rely both on better knowledge of how to design and train these networks, as well as increases in scale made possible by increased computational power and the availability of large training datasets ("big data").

For a neuroscientist, neural network simulation can be of interest from two different points of view: in the theoretical sense, as a model of how real brains work, or in the empirical sense, as a tool that analyses a dataset or performs a certain task (as in the game playing agent). These objectives may not be mutually exclusive, but depending on the application or goal, a researcher has to make concrete decisions about what model to use to approach it.

In this talk, we will review modern neural network architectures and consider them from the perspective of both theory and application. For example, if a certain network model requires a certain training paradigm, this could, on the application side, inform the allocation of CPU time, while on the theoretical side, lead to empirical predictions on neuronal biophysics involved in plasticity. Taken together, the goal is to give the audience (that's you!) the knowledge needed to critically assess neural network models, and subsequently to download and run the chosen network on your own dataset and with your own selection of parameters.

**Bio:**
Charl has a background in engineering, and is particularly interested in systems that actively respond to their environment. After studying Embedded Systems at TU Eindhoven, he realised that brains, or even something as comparatively simple as the nervous system of an insect, are ultimate embedded systems. Following this, he went on to pursue a Master’s program in Cognitive Neuroscience at Radboud University, where he is currently pursuing a PhD on the topic of active sensing in the rodent whisker system.  


